---
layout: post
title:  "what it means to be left unanswered"
permalink: /unanswered/
---

Humanity is almost absolutely not alone in the universe; of the uncountable number of planets and systems, at least one other must have developed life in a similar manner to that of Earth's. Unfortunately, we are extremely young relative to the lifespan of the universe -- fifteen billion years into the estimated one quadrillion years remaining before stars cease fusion -- and therefore may die out before development of life becomes more common, and before that life evolves into an intelligence similar enough to ours to allow communication and meaningful transfer of ideas.

And, even if there is sapient life elsewhere (even relatively nearby!), the expansion of the universe will likely forbid us from contacting them until potential breakthroughs in rocket launch technology allow us to surpass the acceleration of our neighbors away from us. For all intents and purposes, humanity is alone for the time being, and we may never find evidence of other life, living out our entire existence believing we are alone, watching the skies and its stars be blanketed in a black sheet which we cannot surmount.

Therefore, the only significance held by humanity is towards itself; there is no one else to find us significant, or to find the universe significant, for that matter. As far as we know, we are the only life in our vast universe intelligent enough to appreciate or even acknowledge both the fact that we exist, and that the universe exists. Without us, the universe is not an infinite plane of wonder and awe which surrounds us on all sides, but eons of colissions culminating in the breakdown of all matter.

Similarly, there is no one to appreciate us -- and no one to let down, if we fail to accomplish much of anything in our time in the universe. The only connection we may ever have with intelligence besides ourselves is the simple acknowledgement by alien life of life besides itself an infinite distance away from ourselves, like I'm doing now; and if there is other life out there, observing that there must be life other than itself, then it's likely also making the observation that there must be other life which is making that observation right back at them (in which case, I hope your day is going well!).

But, in terms of real interaction, it's likely that we will never meet our neighbors, which is a bit depressing, and means that we are entirely responsible for creating our own meaning (there is no other society for us to assimilate into, or norms for us to meet). We have no one to let down, but to be given the opportunity of life on this scale and fail to spread our wings at all is disappointing, if nothing else.

I think a lot about how inherent suffering has been to humanity throughout its existence. Almost all of us were born slaves and died slaves -- with how poor the average human life has gone, it's surprising that we have hope at all. Most people I interact with seem to treat the concept of a better world as non-negotiable, that maybe the world could be a bit better, that we could have a bit more equality, as if they were commodities. It's hard not to feel discouraged sometimes in a hope for a world which is truly "better" -- one in which the modern day's exploitative institutions are abolished entirely. I turn to revolutionary imagery because it represents a world in which the inequalities I experience and watch others experience are all but gone; in which opportunities are presented equally to everyone; in which those textile workers which Parenti mentioned in [the speech which finally got me to start reading theory](https://youtu.be/xP8CzlFhc14) are granted the quality of life deserved by any human being.

And it's bizarre to me that most people don't pay any mind to any of this and just assume in the back of their minds that everything will naturally resolve itself. I think about the revolutions which proved that people were willing to sacrifice themselves so that their neighbors could live better lives, and to reduce reliance on the exploitation of the third world, allowing its denizens to live better lives, too.

I remember reading something that stuck with me a while ago; that a want similar to greed is inherent to humans, but that, rather than greed (which is defined to be selfish), this want does not necessarily come at the cost of the well-being of others. We do crave "more" and "better" -- we just want our neighbors to have it, too, out of the empathy which has brought us this far. For the sake of humanity which continues to struggle (and of the alien who thought about us today), we must never stop trying. ♥